## Discussion on Building Footprint and Building Height Data

### Introductory Use Cases

* Department of City Planning
    * City plannning is a key player in the building database update cycle. Some teams at DCP have use cases
* Public Saftety GIS (Office of Technology and Innovation)
    * Point-to-point analysis and viewsheds
* Department of Sanitation
    * Predict rough volumes on lots
* New York Police Department
    *  Point-to-point

### Overview of Current Update Procedure and Limitations

* Original Data: Some sort of building height import from [planimetrics](        https://github.com/CityOfNewYork/nyc-planimetrics/blob/main/Capture_Rules.md)
* Then some combination of Building Information System plans and planimetrics 
* In the modern era the CSCL team has taken over building editing. In addition to the Building Informmation system we use modern sources for heights like Cyclomedia and EagleView ConnectExplorer.
* See our [Protocols](https://github.com/mattyschell/geodatabase-buildings/blob/main/doc/Buildings_Edit_Protocols.pdf)

### Our plan

* We tentatively plan to target buildings with NULL or 0 height_roof. These updates can be automated with minimal manual intervention. Consider mapping the updates (choropleth or extrusion) to visually ID outliers.
* Then use planimetrics (2022) to prioritize additional batches
* [Some classic examples](https://github.com/mattyschell/geodatabase-buildings-height?tab=readme-ov-file#examples)


### Discussion

* FDNY
    * Primarily interested in buildings over 800 feet.  FDNY maps these and uses a different response plan for them.
    * Suggests prioritizing tall buildings where we have indications that our heights are off by more than 10-20 feet.
* NYPD
    * Interested in active construction
    * NYPD would like to be able to predict when active construction will turn into point-to-point blockages
    * We all agreed that OTI procedures do not currently lend themselves to producing timely height data.  OTI tends to be downstream and responsive to other processes.
* OTI Public Safety GIS
    * Because the Dept of Buildings information system is a public facing site with limited controls PSGIS has noticed that it is an unreliable source
    * Dept of Buildings is the agency that would have to drive anything resembling real-time updates
* DCP
    * Some background: DCP triggers notifications to OTI first when a permit is issued to build. Second when the building receives a certificate of occupancy.
    * DCP sends output of these triggers to OTI as weekly reports
    * Between #1 and #2 DCP will issue a permanent BIN
    * When DCP sees indications that significant buildings are progressing DCP will notify OTI to add these before the certificate of occupancy
* DEP
    * DEP models drainage. Inaccurate building height data anywhere is bad for their modeling.  So similar to DSNY prioritizing corrections of extremely bad heights anywhere, not just Manhattan supertalls, would be helpful.


### Next

* OTI to provide unpublished planimetrics buildings to attendees
* OTI to communicate our plan and progress to attendees

